=pod

=head1 NAME

dategrep - print lines matching ranges of dates

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  dategrep --start "12:00" --end "12:15" --format "%b %d %H:%M:%S" syslog
  dategrep --end "12:15" --format "%b %d %H:%M:%S" syslog
  dategrep --last-minutes 5 --format "%b %d %H:%M:%S" syslog
  dategrep --last-minutes 5 --format rsyslog syslog
  cat syslog | dategrep --end "12:15" -

=head1 DESCRIPTION

dategrep searches the named input files for lines matching a date range and prints them to stdout.

If dategrep works on a seekable file, it can do a binary search to find
the first and last line to print pretty efficiently. dategrep can also
read from stdin if one the filename arguments is just a hyphen, but in
this case it has to parse every single line which will be slower.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item --start DATESPEC

Print all lines from DATESPEC inclusively. Defauls to Jan 1, 1970 00:00:00 GMT.
See
L<VALID-DATE-FORMATS|https://metacpan.org/pod/distribution/Date-Manip/lib/Date/Manip/Date.pod#VALID-DATE-FORMATS>
for a list of possible formats for DATESPEC.

=item --end DATESPEC

Print all lines until DATESPEC exclusively. Default to the current time. See
L<VALID-DATE-FORMATS|https://metacpan.org/pod/distribution/Date-Manip/lib/Date/Manip/Date.pod#VALID-DATE-FORMATS>
for a l
ist of possible formats for DATESPEC.

=item --last-minutes MINUTES

Print all lines from MINUTES minutes ago until the beginning of the current
minute. So if we have 19:25:43 and MINUTES is five, dategrep will print all
lines from 19:20:00 to 19:24:59.

=item --format FORMAT

Defines a strftime-based FORMAT that is used to parse the input
lines for a date. The first date found on a line is used. The
list of possible escape sequences can be found under L<PRINTF
DIRECTIVES|https://metacpan.org/pod/distribution/Date-Manip/lib/Date/Manip/Date.pod#PRINTF-DIRECTIVES>.

This is a required parameter. Alternatively you can supply the format
via the environment variable I<DATEGREP_DEFAULT_FORMAT>.

Additionally, dategrep supports named formats:

=over 4

=item * rsyslog "%b %d %H:%M:%S"

=item * apache "%d/%b/%Y:%T %z"

=back

=item --help 

Shows a short help message

=item --man

Shows the complete man page in your pager.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item DATEGREP_DEFAULT_FORMAT

Default for the I<--format> parameter. The syntax is described there.

=back

=head1 INSTALLATION

It is possible to install this script via perl normal install routines. 

  perl Build.PL
  ./Build
  ./Build install

Or you can just copy the script somewhere in your path and install its only
dependency Date::Manip. In Debian you just need the following:

  apt-get install libdate-manip-perl

=head1 LIMITATION

At the moment dategrep will die as soon as it finds a line that is not parsable.
In a future version this will be configurable.

dategrep also expects the files to be sorted. If the time serie is not
ascending dategrep might be exiting before the last line in its date range is
printed.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<https://metacpan.org/pod/Date::Manip>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2014 Mario Domgoergen L<E<lt>mario@domgoergen.comE<gt>>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

